if you are a content creator over 40 you
probably sometimes feel a little like
your parents when it comes to technology
there's so many cool AI tools that you
know are going to make your life easier
you know can make things pop especially
if you're creating content to use some
of these AI tools it's going to elevate
your content but you're probably
overwhelmed because there's so many
tools you don't even know where to start
so today I'm going to simplify it and
I'm going to share with you the three
easiest most important AI tools that you
must use as a Creator or get left behind
in 2025 especially if you're over 40 so
if you're somebody who needs things
taught to you very slowly like you need
somebody to sit down right next to you
and say like okay you're going to click
on this button and on that button and
you need to know which apps to use to
really make things that much easier for
you this is the episode for you my name
is shelene Johnson welcome to this
episode a build your
tribe the first tool that you must
really get good at using is video leap
or cap cut and if I had to pick one or
the other I think I'd have to pick cap
cut and here's why cap cut is a an
editing tool that you can use on either
an Android or iPhone and it makes
editing your videos so easy now just a
word of motherly advice older sister
advice to you if if you're an
entrepreneur this is like your number
one tool right you probably don't have
an office you don't have a printer a
copy machine you probably I mean you
have a printer but you don't you don't
have like a big copy machine you don't
have a parking lot in a big office
building like most entrepreneurs today
we we work from our phone and so
whenever I hear someone say like do they
have a free version of the app I
understand that we we want to be wise
about where it is we spend our money but
when it comes to AI tools my personal
recommendation is do not skimp sure get
the free trial version for a couple of
days if you're not positive but if you
start using it get the paid version the
paid version of all of the tools I'm
going to share with you today they're
all really well priced but you just
won't get the same tools the same
features the same ease of use you won't
have access to all the bells and
whistles if you're just using the free
version so pay for the cap cut full
addition you trust me it's going to save
you time it's going to be well worth
your investment
once you're in cap cut let me show you
some of my favorite features okay so
let's say we go to cap cut now I'm doing
this on my desktop and by the way they
add new features all the time so let's
just say that I am going to ask it to
create a script for me for an Instagram
reel about the ease of using cap cut and
other tool other AI tools for editing
your own videos where you don't even
have to be the person in the video all
right so it's going to create a script
for me once it's done creating the
script then I can pick a
narrator I can actually allow it to
narrate the video and to generate all of
the images so let's see now this is
going to be kind of crude but let's
check it out and see what we get you
know those magical tools that make our
lives so much easier right well let's
dive in and see how they can save us
time and boost our productivity so
imagine this you've just finished along
day of filming and you're ready to start
editing but wait I love the b-roll I'm
not crazy about the voice you know what
I would probably do I would take the
time to record my own voice over but I
love that it came up with a script and
b-roll so if you're someone who's not
comfortable going on camera don't let
that stop you you don't need to anymore
and that's just the tip of the iceberg
when it comes to cap cut video leap and
other AI editing tools my next favorite
AI tool is still chat GPT and you've got
to get real comfortable with using it
this tool should be used multiple times
per day here's what I want you to do I
want you to pretend that Google does not
exist I'm going to make a prediction for
you right now it won't exist not in the
way that we know it
soon because open- Source AI is taking
over you shouldn't go to Google for just
about anything anymore even if you're
like looking for a restaurant
recommendation just go to Google and say
what are the top Farm to Plate vegan
restaurants in
Nashville according to influencers in
2024 like you can get the most precise
information from chat GPT but as a
content creator I want you using chat
GPT like it is your full-time super
qualified research assistant and
copywriter let me show you some of my
favorite ways or share with you some of
my favorite ways of using chat GPT
recently I did an episode for my other
podcast the shellene show which where we
cover health and hormones and things
that women are really interested in we
talk about fluff we talk about reality
TV but we also talk about important
things like hormones and medical studies
and supplements and and how to have
Optimal Health at this age at any age
and recently I did this episode where I
talked about the most important
supplements meaning like vitamins
minerals that every single woman over 40
should be taking so I did my research
for the first supplement which was
magnesium and I listed all of the ways
that you or all the places you can find
in your food and I then went to chat GPT
and I said explain to me all of the
different um uses for the different
types of magnesium because there's like
15 different types of magnesium okay so
I'm going to paste in a message here and
giving it instructions take the
following format and replicate it for
vitamin D iron vitamin B Omega zinc and
magnesium
and what I wanted to do is to tell me
like where do I find these things in
Foods why do you need it signs you might
be deficient and the amount recommended
for optimal versus standard ranges okay
that would take me a couple of hours to
research let's see how long chat GPT
takes all right so there's vitamin
D why we need
it here's the amounts for standard
versus optimal now it's doing it for
iron why you need it can you see how
much time that saves you and essentially
what it's doing is creating for you a
script if you want I mean there's so
many things you can do I couldn't live
without it saves me so much time it was
crazy I was able to do all of that
research in about 10 minutes while I was
walking outside it saves you so much
time and you can train AI to respond the
way you want it to it's it's about
refining that so now with chat GPT you
can say things like from now on whenever
you give me a response make sure it's
always in bulleted form and abbreviated
because too long didn't read chat gbt
especially if you're a people pleaser it
is so easy to even get frustrated with
it and tell it exactly what it is you
want and how it is you want it and it
will deliver it to you and if it doesn't
you say Okay that was wrong again I want
this to be even more brief hear me
clearly if the response you get on chat
GPT isn't quite right right don't give
up and don't get
frustrated just keep asking it to refine
its
response explain to chbt why it was
wrong explain to it why or what it is
you're looking for and then say now
update your memory with this information
now chat GPT I don't even have to say
respond to or rewrite this in the words
of shellene Johnson it I've already
updated the memory now it's it's
speaking to me in bullets it's speaking
to me abbreviated it knows I have ADHD
it knows how I write so when it composes
something it's in my
voice if you're not using chat BT on the
regular you're going to get left behind
in 2024 2025 2024 is over but another AI
tool that I've mentioned in previous
episode of build your tribe is
perplexity and I I love perplexity in
fact if I were to tell you to get one or
the other I think I would probably tell
you to get perplexity because perplexity
includes chat GPT now it's not as easy
to use but it's more robust again you're
just going to type in your prompt and
then you'll notice in the upper right
hand corner there's three little bars
and it says focus when you click on
Focus that menu will expand and it gives
you options such as academic papers
social sites videos or all like you can
literally just tell I only want
information that is published in
academic papers so if you're someone who
researches or somebody who cites a lot
of science or wants science to be broken
down perplexity is an absolute must pay
again upgrade to the paid version and
you know this isn't sponsored but I'm
telling you all of these programs you
should just pay for the paid version you
won't regret it and next I want to tell
you about Adobe podcast like this is an
AI tool that I use all the time again I
would highly recommend the upgrade for
the paid vers version this is a tool
that makes editing a podcast makes it
makes you sound like a pro it makes it
sound like you recorded your podcast in
a professional recording studio even if
you're recording outside and it's windy
and there's lots of background noise or
maybe you're recording in a car or you
don't have a good quality microphone you
don't have access to one and so you
ended up having to record on your phone
which I I do all the time in fact
Wednesdays on the shellene show I
exclusively record from my phone while
I'm walking outside and it's windy and
it's noisy so I'm going to show you a
little sample of what this little audio
clip sounds like first the original
recording with without any filter on it
like just you know what it sounded like
plain raw recorded on my phone so let's
start right away with the basics and if
you're listening to this in real time
like it came out on Wednesday you're
listening to it on Wednesday uh that
means that Thanksgiving is right around
the corner I don't know why every bird
and every dog and every every cat in
this neighborhood has decided to start
making noise right now cuz I'm
recording okay and now here's that same
recording and we've uploaded it to Adobe
podcast clicked one button and here's
what we get so let's start right away
with the basics and if you're listening
to this in real time like it came out on
Wednesday you're listening to it on
Wednesday uh that means that
Thanksgiving is right around the corner
I don't know why every bird and every
dog and every cat in this neighborhood
is decided to start making noise right
now cuz I'm
recording now what's really cool about
this feature is you can slide it
accordingly there's a little toggle when
you upload the file and it's ready to be
filtered and it allows you to select how
much of a filter you want to put on that
audio recording now if you filter it a
lot sometimes it drops I've noticed it
drops off like the end of my word
because maybe I didn't annunciate all
the way like I said all the way like you
know what I mean like you know voice
kind of drops off at the end of a
sentence or the end of a word sometimes
so if you turn up the filter too high
it'll it silences that so you've got to
play with it there are times where I I
filter it heavily and then there are
times where I can't filter it as much
because I wasn't speaking directly into
the microphone you also have to be
careful if you're trying to if you're
intentionally trying to pick up another
person's conversation and if you turn
the filter up too high it'll silence
them but if you're someone who doesn't
have access to expensive equipment you
don't need it you can make all of your
audio recording sound that much better
with the click of a button you don't
have to hire an expensive amazing
talented goodlook editor like the one I
used to edit the two that I used to edit
this show in fact you can just click a
button and be on your marial way because
who doesn't have their own podcast in
2025 like everyone has their own podcast
it's the thing to do and if you've been
think that expensive equipment or an
editor is what's holding you back now
you know you can use AI for the research
AI for the editing and AI even for the
SEO optimization yeah put in the title
for the show that you want to use into
chat GPT and say give me a better title
give me a title that's more clickable
give me a title that creates more
curiosity now in your own words you can
describe what the show's about and say
okay now rewrite this into a really
fabulous search engine optimized
description for my podcast like these
tools are like you've hired a team of
experts it allows you to get so much
more done so much quicker do not be
afraid of AI you got to catch up with AI
because if you don't you're going to get
left behind in 2025 thanks so much for
listening or watching this episode of
build your tribe it is my goal to be
brief to be bright to make it fun and
then be done we're done bye